Add mesh tutorials to the main tutorials branch (#1908)
ansys/pydpf-core: doc/source/user_guide/tutorials/mesh/create_a_mesh_from_scratch.rst

    ):
        for j, y in enumerate(
            [float(i) * width / float(num_nodes_in_width) for i in range(0, num_nodes_in_width)]
        ):
            for k, z in enumerate(
                [float(i) * depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth) for i in range(0, num_nodes_in_depth)]
            ):
                my_meshed_region.nodes.add_node(node_id, [x, y, z])
                node_id += 1

Get the nodes coordinates field.

.. jupyter-execute::

    my_nodes_coordinates = my_meshed_region.nodes.coordinates_field

Set the mesh properties
-----------------------

Set the mesh unit.

.. jupyter-execute::

    my_meshed_region.unit = "mm"

Set the nodes coordinates.

.. jupyter-execute::

    # Get the nodes coordinates data
    my_nodes_coordinates_data = my_nodes_coordinates.data
    # As we use the connectivity function we need to get the data as a list
    my_nodes_coordinates_data_list = my_nodes_coordinates.data_as_list
    # Set the nodes scoping
    my_coordinates_scoping = my_nodes_coordinates.scoping

Add elements
------------
Add |Elements| to the |MeshedRegion| object.

.. jupyter-execute::

>     element_id = 1
>     for i, x in enumerate(
>         [float(i) * length / float(num_nodes_in_length) for i in range(num_nodes_in_length - 1)]
>     ):
>         for j, y in enumerate(
>             [float(i) * width / float(num_nodes_in_width) for i in range(num_nodes_in_width - 1)]
>         ):
>             for k, z in enumerate(
>                 [float(i) * depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth) for i in range(num_nodes_in_depth - 1)]
>             ):
>                 coord1 = np.array([x, y, z])
>                 connectivity = []
>                 for xx in [x, x + length / float(num_nodes_in_length)]:
>                     for yy in [y, y + width / float(num_nodes_in_width)]:
>                         for zz in [z, z + depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth)]:
>                             scoping_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data, [xx, yy, zz])
>                             connectivity.append(scoping_index)
>                 # rearrange connectivity
>                 tmp = connectivity[2]
>                 connectivity[2] = connectivity[3]
>                 connectivity[3] = tmp
>                 tmp = connectivity[6]
>                 connectivity[6] = connectivity[7]
>                 connectivity[7] = tmp
>                 my_meshed_region.elements.add_solid_element(element_id, connectivity)
>                 element_id += 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Add solid elements (linear hexa with eight nodes):
    element_id = 1
    # Precompute node spacings
    dx = length / float(num_nodes_in_length)
    dy = width / float(num_nodes_in_width)
    dz = depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth)
    # Generate node coordinates
    x_coords = [i * dx for i in range(num_nodes_in_length - 1)]
    y_coords = [j * dy for j in range(num_nodes_in_width - 1)]
    z_coords = [k * dz for k in range(num_nodes_in_depth - 1)]
    # Iterate through the grid
    for x in x_coords:
        for y in y_coords:
            for z in z_coords:
                coord1 = np.array([x, y, z])
                connectivity = []
                # Generate connectivity for the current element
                for xx in [x, x + dx]:
                    for yy in [y, y + dy]:
                        for zz in [z, z + dz]:
                            scoping_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data,
                                                               [xx, yy, zz])
                            connectivity.append(scoping_index)
                # Rearrange connectivity to maintain element orientation
                connectivity[2], connectivity[3] = connectivity[3], connectivity[2]
                connectivity[6], connectivity[7] = connectivity[7], connectivity[6]
                # Add the solid element
                my_meshed_region.elements.add_solid_element(element_id, connectivity)
                element_id += 1
```

.. _ref_tutorials_create_a_mesh_from_scratch:

==========================
Create a mesh from scratch
==========================

> .. include:: ../../../links_and_refs.rst

Reviewer 2: No need for this once it is declared in the `conf.py`.

> This tutorial demonstrates how to build a |MeshedRegion| from the scratch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to build a |MeshedRegion| from scratch.
```

The mesh object in DPF is a |MeshedRegion|. You can create your own |MeshedRegion| object and use it
with DPF operators. The ability to use scripting to create any DPF entity means
that you are not dependent on result files and can connect the DPF environment
with any Python tool.

In this tutorial, we create a parallel piped mesh made of linear hexa elements.

> :jupyter-download-script:`Download tutorial as Python script<create_a_mesh_from_scratch>`

Reviewer 2: Just to make sure, this role directive is provided by the Jupyter Sphinx extension, right? Does it combine all the code-blocks into a big notebook file?

Author: Yes, exactly

Reviewer 2: Thanks for explaining. Then, it makes sense that we keep those comments within the code-blocks as discussed.

:jupyter-download-notebook:`Download tutorial as Jupyter notebook<create_a_mesh_from_scratch>`

Import the necessary modules
----------------------------

> Import the ``ansys.dpf.core`` module, including the operators module and the numpy library.

Reviewer 2: Same comment as before. Better to have comments as paragraphs and pure code in the blocks.

.. jupyter-execute::

    # Import the numpy library
    import numpy as np
    # Import the ``ansys.dpf.core`` module
    from ansys.dpf import core as dpf
    # Import the operators module
    from ansys.dpf.core import operators as ops

Define the mesh dimensions
--------------------------

.. jupyter-execute::

>     # Define the mesh dimensions
>     length = 0.1
>     width = 0.05
>     depth = 0.1

Reviewer 2: What about this just to short a bit the code and use the horizontal space in the body of the docs?

```suggestion
    # Define the mesh dimensions
    length, width, depth = 0.1, 0.05, 0.1
```

    num_nodes_in_length = 10
    num_nodes_in_width = 5
    num_nodes_in_depth = 10
    # Create a MeshedRegion object
    my_meshed_region = dpf.MeshedRegion()

Define the connectivity function
--------------------------------

To create a mesh you must define the nodes connectivity. This means to define
the nodes ids connected to each element.

Here, we create a function that will find this connectivity.

.. jupyter-execute::

>     def search_sequence_numpy(arr, seq):
>         """Find a sequence in an array and return its index."""
>         indexes = np.where(np.isclose(arr, seq[0]))
>         for index in np.nditer(indexes[0]):
>             if index % 3 == 0:
>                 if np.allclose(arr[index + 1], seq[1]) and np.allclose(arr[index + 2], seq[2]):
>                     return index
>         return -1

Reviewer 2: I think this should work too. It avoids using the `np.nditer` function and handles dimensions before executing any logic:

```suggestion
    if len(seq) == 0:
        raise ValueError("The search sequence must not be empty.")
    if len(seq) > len(arr):
        return -1  # Sequence longer than the array cannot be found.

    # Sliding window approach
    for i in range(len(arr) - len(seq) + 1):
        if np.allclose(arr[i:i + len(seq)], seq):
            return i
    return -1
```

Reviewer: I tested this it does not work as-is, we'll see about refactoring this part later, I want to merge this tutorial ASAP.

>     def search_sequence_numpy(arr, seq):
>         """Find a sequence in an array and return its index."""
>         indexes = np.where(np.isclose(arr, seq[0]))
>         for index in np.nditer(indexes[0]):
>             if index % 3 == 0:
>                 if np.allclose(arr[index + 1], seq[1]) and np.allclose(arr[index + 2], seq[2]):
>                     return index
>         return -1

Reviewer 4: Great implementation and great suggestion by Jorge as well. 
Numpy operations are multidimensional, and knowing how to take advantage of this will greatly simplify things. For example, you can directly determine the index of a node within a DPFArray of nodes as suggested below.

```suggestion
    def search_sequence_numpy(arr, node):
        """Find the node location in an array of nodes and return its index."""
        indexes = np.isclose(arr, seq)
        match = np.all(indexes, axis=1).nonzero()
        return int(match[0][0])
```

Reviewer 4: So this updated function will take `my_nodes_coordinates_data` directly as input.

Reviewer: I tested this it does not work as-is, we'll see about refactoring this part later, I want to merge this tutorial ASAP.

.. jupyter-execute::

    # Get the nodes coordinates data
    my_nodes_coordinates_data = my_nodes_coordinates.data
    # As we use the connectivity function we need to get the data as a list
    my_nodes_coordinates_data_list = my_nodes_coordinates.data_as_list
    # Set the nodes scoping
    my_coordinates_scoping = my_nodes_coordinates.scoping

Add elements
------------
Add |Elements| to the |MeshedRegion| object.

.. jupyter-execute::

    element_id = 1
    for i, x in enumerate(
        [float(i) * length / float(num_nodes_in_length) for i in range(num_nodes_in_length - 1)]
    ):
        for j, y in enumerate(
            [float(i) * width / float(num_nodes_in_width) for i in range(num_nodes_in_width - 1)]
        ):
            for k, z in enumerate(
                [float(i) * depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth) for i in range(num_nodes_in_depth - 1)]
            ):
                coord1 = np.array([x, y, z])
                connectivity = []
                for xx in [x, x + length / float(num_nodes_in_length)]:
                    for yy in [y, y + width / float(num_nodes_in_width)]:
                        for zz in [z, z + depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth)]:

>                             data_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data_list, [xx, yy, zz])
>                             scoping_index = int(data_index / 3)  # 3components

Reviewer 4: If you choose to go with the previous suggestion, then you just need to do this:
```suggestion
                            scoping_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data, [xx, yy, zz])
```

Reviewer 4: Of course, you would still need to take care of the suggestions already given by Jorge.

>     element_id = 1
>     for i, x in enumerate(
>         [float(i) * length / float(num_nodes_in_length) for i in range(num_nodes_in_length - 1)]
>     ):
>         for j, y in enumerate(
>             [float(i) * width / float(num_nodes_in_width) for i in range(num_nodes_in_width - 1)]
>         ):
>             for k, z in enumerate(
>                 [float(i) * depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth) for i in range(num_nodes_in_depth - 1)]
>             ):
>                 coord1 = np.array([x, y, z])
>                 connectivity = []
>                 for xx in [x, x + length / float(num_nodes_in_length)]:
>                     for yy in [y, y + width / float(num_nodes_in_width)]:
>                         for zz in [z, z + depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth)]:
>                             data_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data_list, [xx, yy, zz])
>                             scoping_index = int(data_index / 3)  # 3components
>                             connectivity.append(scoping_index)
>                 # rearrange connectivity
>                 tmp = connectivity[2]
>                 connectivity[2] = connectivity[3]
>                 connectivity[3] = tmp
>                 tmp = connectivity[6]
>                 connectivity[6] = connectivity[7]
>                 connectivity[7] = tmp
>                 my_meshed_region.elements.add_solid_element(element_id, connectivity)
>                 element_id += 1

Reviewer 2: By storing constants in variables, the readability of this code can be improved:

```suggestion
    element_id = 1

    # Precompute node spacings
    dx = length / float(num_nodes_in_length)
    dy = width / float(num_nodes_in_width)
    dz = depth / float(num_nodes_in_depth)

    # Generate node coordinates
    x_coords = [i * dx for i in range(num_nodes_in_length - 1)]
    y_coords = [j * dy for j in range(num_nodes_in_width - 1)]
    z_coords = [k * dz for k in range(num_nodes_in_depth - 1)]

    # Iterate through the grid
    for x in x_coords:
        for y in y_coords:
            for z in z_coords:
                coord1 = np.array([x, y, z])
                connectivity = []

                # Generate connectivity for the current element
                for xx in [x, x + dx]:
                    for yy in [y, y + dy]:
                        for zz in [z, z + dz]:
                            data_index = search_sequence_numpy(my_nodes_coordinates_data_list, [xx, yy, zz])
                            scoping_index = int(data_index / 3)  # 3 components per node
                            connectivity.append(scoping_index)

                # Rearrange connectivity to maintain element orientation
                connectivity[2], connectivity[3] = connectivity[3], connectivity[2]
                connectivity[6], connectivity[7] = connectivity[7], connectivity[6]

                # Add the solid element
                my_meshed_region.elements.add_solid_element(element_id, connectivity)
                element_id += 1
```

Plot the mesh
-------------

You can check the mesh we just created with a plot. For more information on how to plot a mesh see
the :ref:`ref_tutorials_plotting_meshes` tutorial.

.. jupyter-execute::

>     # Plot the mesh

Reviewer 2: As suggested before, no need for comments next to explicit code:

```suggestion
```
